# Phyllotactic Pattern Generator
This is a command line tool for generating different phyllotactic patterns.  This project is in a very early stage and so far the following patterns can be generated:
* Vogel planar patterns (i.e., Fermi spirals)
* cylindrical phyllotactic patterns

## Requirements
This tool requires Python 2 (and is compatible with Python 3), including the numpy package.  It is recommended that you use a scientific Python distribution such as, e.g., Anaconda.

## Usage
The tool is used from the command line as follows
```
python.exe ./src/python.exe PATTERN [OPTIONS]
```
PATTERN is an integer indicating which kind of pattern we wish to implement.  Each PATTERN has certain required numerical inputs, as follows.

* PATTERN 0: generate a Vogel planar pattern using n florets with a scaling factor c
* PATTERN 1: generate a cylindrical phyllotactic pattern using n csales with a scaling factor c

At this time, the tool can generate two types of patterns as described above.  The Vogel planar pattern can be generated by 
```
python.exe ./src/python.exe 0 --npoints N --scale C
```
where N is the number of points (florets) in the Vogel planar pattern and C is the scaling factor.

Similarly, a cylindrical phyllotactic pattern can be generated by
```
python.exe ./src/python.exe 1 --npoints N --scale C --alpha A --radius R --heigh H
```
where N is the number of points (scales), C is a scaling factor, R is the radius of the cylinder, A is the angular separation of consecutive points (scales) and H is the height separation of consecutive points (scales). 

